hello everybody
welcome to the ipves virtual community
meetup
my name is dietrich ayala i'm the
ecosystem lead protocol labs for ipfess
and today we're going to talk about a
few things uh thanks for joining
uh first please share your information
in the chat
see a whole bunch of folks in there uh
share with group
where you are coming from how you're
involved in ipfs
or what you want to learn and if you're
currently using ipfs let us know
let everybody else know what your what
your app is what your website is
github repo and what you're using it for
so before we jump in
to the main event i wanted to share this
with you the ipfs community code of
conduct
we do have a community code of conduct
we have
standards for behavior and in this
community we want people to feel welcome
everybody to be able to participate in a
way that
feels okay with them and we'll out of
our way to be able to
help you if you have any issues in this
community so there's contact information
there
please do reach out and let us know if
you need any help at all
today we're gonna have a couple of
different talks i'm gonna give a really
quick update
now on our plans for the second half of
this year
a little quick trip down what happened
in
first half of this year uh and then
we'll have a few different groups that
are building on top of
or with ipves talking about their
projects and we'll finish with
living talks it will be an action-packed
hour
you're probably familiar with ipfs but
if you're not familiar with ipfs a
really quick refresher
ipfess is a decentralized file sharing
system
internet scale like the internet they
use today
except instead of referencing things by
their location we ask for them
by the unique identity of their contents
as you can see in this slide how we ask
for things is a little bit different
and it's called a content address some
of the problems that ipfs seems to
address
are some of the shortcomings of the web
that we know today uh things like
websites going down ddos's censorship
things not working offline uh a security
and
trust model that is uh something that's
not really
in your control as well as uh broken
links and major network inefficiencies
we do this with ipfs on top of a stack
that is ipfs which is built using other
things like ipld
and we have linking data together lib
p2p
a modular pdp networking library that
you can build all kinds of things on and
many other projects outside of ipvs use
as well
as multi-format formats which is way of
future proofing and
upgrading the web as we move forward
the ipvs community all over the world i
can know from some of the people in the
chat who are coming from different
continents that one that i am on
and uh at this point over 4 000 people
contributing in the community thank you
for your contributions
it's amazing the ipf's ecosystem is
comprised of
hundreds and hundreds of apps many
different services some people are using
it for content some people for
infrastructure some people for ops
and uh some people for personal data
sharing
and uh keeping data alive at storing
data as well
many of the projects that you see here
some of these folks are in the chat so
if you have questions
about your given use case or something
that you want to do with ipfess feel
free to ask in that
uh before we get into the second half of
the year let's talk a little bit about
the first half of the year the first
half of the year
had a really it was was momentous in a
few different ways but one of the
biggest was that we launched ipve 0.5
which was the largest upgrade
of performance in ipfs that just
happened to date it was a major change
to the protocol and it was a
major change to how ipvest was able to
respond to the needs the growing needs
of the people using it
uh as network traffic grows and use of
ipfs grows as it be just grows into
different areas
segments and different applications and
adds to browsers it needs to be able to
perform in a way that meets people's
expectations
and that can provide them the network
performance that
that we need uh so there's a massive
improvement here and there are more yet
to come the way that these improvements
were implemented means that the
uh we will be able to take more and more
advantage of them as as time
goes on uh we also saw a lot of
integrations and people building on top
of
of ipfs ipfess launched in browsers like
uh opera for android
uh the wolfram language and wolfram
engine added ipfs support
uh new services such as ens unstoppable
domains we'll hear about from later
today
uh and fleek started popping up uh
ceramic was able to build
uh identity systems and three box
continuing to build on top of ipfs and
we saw it
show up in a few places like the uh
ethereum foundation website being served
on top of it and
brave browser actually building a store
on top of ipvest
uh we saw a bunch of changes in how how
how we actually build ipfest how we test
ipfess things like performance
improvements
we launched a grants program in in the
first half of the year
major changes to uh how ipf's core
protocol parts work
and then from a contributing experience
standpoint we made a number of changes
uh to how we actually build ipfs and how
we make it easier for you to be able to
respond and tell us how it's working for
you
uh we give it give the world is
shut down in a lot of ways we still took
part in a number of different events
that hosted different events in the
first half of the year
uh some of that which we'll hear both
spoke at
i participated in joined and we're going
to keep doing more of them
like this uh and some other things that
we
we changed as well in the first half of
the year where how well and how we
listen to you
how we listen to what the needs of
developers are how we listen and
identify who's building on ipfess we
have tools now that scour things like
docker compose files and github repos
and github issues
be able to figure out who's using ip
fest what kind of challenges they're
facing what they're using it for
uh so that we can better meet their
needs as their
uh like as the protocol is growing as as
their usage is
growing also if you're using any of
our ipfs projects like ipfs companion or
ipvs desktop
uh ipfs wave ui you'll have seen a major
amount of changes in the first half of
the year
a concerted effort to consolidate and
make consistent the design of our
applications
across all of various parts where we
actually have user interface and
efforts to make it uh easier and uh
probably if you're part of our community
you've seen some of the outreach that
we've done be able to get
your viewpoints and understand how
you're using these tools so that we can
uh prioritize what we fix how we fix it
when
now let's talk about what's coming next
the second half of the year
the priority for this team for the
confessed core team is to drive the ipfs
ecosystem
and support it and grow it uh we spent
the first half of the year making sure
that the foundations are strong
that the ipfs core protocol is able uh
set up in a way to scale
into this growth that we're experiencing
and now we want to make sure that we're
able to sustain that
and to be able to build on top of it
internal focus on those core bits of the
protocol
into understanding what the needs of the
people building on ipfs are
how we can beat them best uh we're going
to do this a few different ways
talk about continuous visibility
understanding
who you are how you're using ipfs how
the protocols
is holding up how our implementations of
it are doing uh maintaining support so
it's paying attention to stack overflow
to the forums to
github issues and the places where
you're
either making feature requests or
reporting issues
uh and using that to accelerate adoption
so looking for places where
we get ipfs make it easier to access by
people
who are not technical make it easier to
use for people
to both publish data and to be able to
consume it uh
the priorities are community maintenance
and maintainership
making sure that we're shipping their
software on a regular basis uh we're
reducing the
time that it takes us to be able to ship
new updates to the protocol into the
libraries and implementations
uh the second priority is driving
ecosystem support so
making sure that um we are listening to
the people that are using ipfess
that we're responding to it and actually
closing a loop there and fixing those
issues
and then we're identifying places where
we can get ipfs into more people's hands
like the browser integrations
talk about shortly and the third is to
instrument and hone
the newcomers so understanding who is
coming to ipfs and how who
who are the new people who are coming to
the president who are looking for
what ipves can provide and understanding
when
and where they either hit a barrier or
fall off that path
uh if there's anything that we can do to
close those gaps to be able to provide
tools to make it easier to understand
when when when you experience challenges
the
the the nature of developing for our p2p
network is
radically different than developing for
centralized systems and developing with
http
so we need to be able to understand the
challenges that people have when they're
making that transition
and be able to develop tools that that
help them get all the way
to shipping their applications so in
response to this we changed up the
iphone's working groups
a little bit uh the corporations group
this group that builds both the go ipfs
implementation and the jsip fest
implementation
uh the bifrost working group focuses on
our gateway and operational services and
making sure that our network services
are
staying alive and meeting the needs of
increased traffic ecosystem group is
the one that i'm leading right now we
look at uh community
our collaborations on partners developer
experience and contribute experience
and uh the fourth group is web browsers
and gui which is our browser
integrations
how we operate and work in when ips is
running in web content
and also our gui applications like
companion and ipvs desktop
uh the goals for for these different
groups for
this half of the year are what i talked
about before
regular releases making sure that our
network operations and services are
staying up uh identifying opportunities
for growth and making sure that the
people that come into the project
are staying on uh on the path and are
able to get their needs met
and then making sure and building out
our browser options so making sure that
with
ipvs and web content works optimally
that it works for developer needs
and that when browsers that are
interested
and that we're working with and
integrating ipfs that those projects are
continuing
for this quarter the bifrost team
is focused on infrastructure for the
most part making sure that security
infrastructure
is up that ipfs is serving the file coin
hosting needs that we have
and that our gateways are staying up and
that we have metrics around that
gui web browser's team is uh going to be
adding a new feature that you'll hear
about hopefully in the lightning talk
section a little later
uh called pinning services one of the
things that you know if you add
something to ipfs
on your laptop and then you shut your
laptop it's no longer necessarily
available on the network
so we want to be able to have a way for
people who want to be able to host their
data
and make sure that it's there all the
time can easily do that from within the
the uh products that we ship so that's
what the pinning service is
going to be and you will see a little
bit more of that coming up soon
uh we'll also be working on brave
integration and
a lot of the high priority issues in our
gui products like desktop to make sure
that those are working for everyone
the ecosystem group is really focused on
systemic views of the project so
looking at overall community needs
making sure that we're meeting
our community needs from our
communication standpoint that we have
automation to be able to make sure that
our small team can actually sustain
and survive the incoming amount of
questions from all
from places like forums rc matrix and
stack overflow
we want to be able to understand for dot
developers specifically
how well ipves is working for them we
want to know what tools they're using
what tools they need
whether our documentation is meeting
their needs we also want to be able to
develop
systems of understanding overall project
status both for ipvs and the other
projects like protocol labs
uh we are using a system of dashboards
right now kind of what i mentioned
earlier about
uh github repo tracking and crawling to
be able to understand
where things are growing or shrinking or
changing
or how ipfs has been used and we wanted
more tools like that so we can
leverage that and make this better
decisions about what we do with the core
protocol and when
and then finally identifying and uh
integrating a set of
well understood metrics into the
projects we understand uh
whether what we do what we're doing is
actually working or not uh the core
implementations for
go have um the supporting depending
ecosystem again is building services
ecosystem it gives a really high
priority
uh and then a number of things including
a specification for the dht so that dhc
implementations can be implemented in
multiple languages instead of just go
in javascript there's a whole bunch of
performance improvements that are coming
as well as a few different things like
integrations with react native and
typescript we want to be able to
provide libraries that work how
javascript developers are working today
and make sure that ipfs is a choice that
they
can have when they're building their
applications uh there's a number of
different
success metrics that we're looking at
these are some of the ones that we look
at today
across a couple of different areas but
we don't have
visibility into some of these areas so
there's still some work to do for us
in both meeting these metrics but also
getting better insight and understanding
uh and how they're working for us and
whether or not these are the right
metrics
uh so there's a couple different tools
that we're using to be able to look at
these metrics some of them are
you know basic systems monitoring and
some are custom dashboards that we made
to be able to understand the full scope
and spectrum of the
uh project there's more
uh microsoft ion is a decentralized
digital identity system that'll be
launching later
this year that uses ipfs for storage uh
ucam which maybe will hopefully get to a
future one of these to be able to talk
is a privacy-oriented home security
camera
that uses ipfs
and i have one of these right now and i
have it sitting in my backyard
looking for mooses so not a typical use
case but hopefully it will put
the product to the test uh the ipf's
case study series you probably saw the
first one of these from
uh audience uh it's now in our docs
it's available to be able to look at how
they use ipvs to
meet their needs architectural
standpoint and
understand their their overall topology
and how they deployed ipfs
but we have a number of these coming out
so we can tell more stories about
exactly how uh projects and companies
organizations are taking ipfs using it
to be able to meet their needs
understanding the uh the relative costs
and benefits
of different architectural decisions and
choices more of these coming soon
and like i said before the painting
services api this is currently a
specification that is progress
uh feedback is really wanted if you're
interested in either both consuming or
hosting uh pinning service definitely
share
your thoughts with us so we can make
sure that it meets your needs
uh brave ipfs native integration and
brave is coming
soon this is something we've been
working with brave on for some time
and i think that you're gonna be able to
probably see something
around around in the next couple of
months uh be able to test
a version of brave that's actually
running a native node of of ipfs
uh the grants program still has a number
of grants that are in progress and a few
new ones
you're gonna see uh maps integration
more and deeper
chromium integrations and more work with
uh wikipedia and also nixos
uh coming soon and finally there are a
number of events that are happening
right now in order to prepare for the
filecoin mainnet launch a lot of these
developers are using ipfs
heavily and uh the hackfest month-long
hackathon is
is ending uh this week i believe and the
feedback we've gotten from developers
there has been fantastic
and be able to understand how people are
using ipfs and what things we need to be
able to fix both in the
core libraries and and documentation so
that's a view into what h2 will look
like for the ipvs
project thank you so much
you